ticdc-open-api: add ticdc open api doc (#6186)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-open-api.md

---
title: TiCDC Open API
summary: Learn how to use the Open API interface to manage the cluster status and data replication.
---

# TiCDC Open API

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

> **Warning:**
>
> TiCDC Open API is still an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in a production environment.

> TiCDC provides the Open API feature. Using the APIs, you can query and operate the TiCDC cluster. Overall, the Open API feature is similar to that of [`cdc cli` tool] (/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#use-cdc-cli-to-manage-cluster-status-and-data-replication-task).

Author: ```suggestion
TiCDC provides the Open API feature for querying and operating the TiCDC cluster. The Open API feature is similar to that of [`cdc cli` tool] (/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#use-cdc-cli-to-manage-cluster-status-and-data-replication-task).
```

You can use the Open APIs to perform the following maintenance operations on the TiCDC cluster:

- [Get the status information of a TiCDC node](#get-the-status-information-of-a-ticdc-node)
- [Check the health status of a TiCDC cluster](#check-the-health-status-of-a-ticdc-cluster)
- [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task)
- [Remove a replication task](#remove-a-replication-task)
- [Update the replication configuration](#update-the-replication-configuration)
- [Query the replication task list](#query-the-replication-task-list)
- [Query a specific replication task](#query-a-specific-replication-task)

> - [Pause a replication task] (#pause-a-replication-task)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Pause a replication task](#pause-a-replication-task)
```

- [Resume a replication task](#resume-a-replication-task)
- [Query the replication subtask list](#query-the-replication-subtask-list)
- [Query a specific replication subtask](#query-a-specific-replication-subtask)
- [Query the TiCDC service process list](#query-the-ticdc-service-process-list)
- [Evict an owner node](#evict-an-owner-node)

> - [Manually trigger the load balancing of a table](#manually-trigger-the-load-balancing-of-a-table)

Reviewer: It is not a table. It is all tables in a replication task.

> - [Manually trigger the load balancing of a table](#manually-trigger-the-load-balancing-of-a-table)

Reviewer: It is not a table. It is all tables in a replication task.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Manually trigger the load balancing of all tables in a replication task](#manually-trigger-the-load-balancing-of-all-tables-in-a-replication-task)
```

- [Manually schedule a table to another node](#manually-schedule-a-table-to-another-node)
- [Dynamically adjust the log level of the TiCDC server](#dynamically-adjust-the-log-level-of-the-ticdc-server)

> The request body and returned value of all APIs are in JSON format. The following sections describes the specific usage of the Open APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
The request body and returned value of all APIs are in JSON format. The following sections describe the specific usage of the Open APIs.
```

## API error message template

After sending an API request, if an error occurs, the returned error message is in the following format:

```json
{
    "error_msg": "",
    "error_code": ""
}
```

From the above JSON output, `error_msg` describes the error message and `error_code` is the corresponding error code.

## Get the status information of a TiCDC node

This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the status information of the corresponding node is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/status`

### Example

The following request gets the status information of the TiCDC node whose IP address is `127.0.0.1` and port number is `8300`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/status
```

```json
{
    "version": "v5.2.0-master-dirty",
    "git_hash": "f191cd00c53fdf7a2b1c9308a355092f9bf8824e",
    "id": "c6a43c16-0717-45af-afd6-8b3e01e44f5d",
    "pid": 25432,
    "is_owner": true
}
```

The fields of the above output are described as follows:

> -version: The current TiCDC version number.
> -git_hash: The Git hash value.
> -id: The capture ID of the node.
> -pid: The capture process PID of the node.
> -is_owner: Indicates whether the node is an owner.

Author: ```suggestion
- version: The current TiCDC version number.
- git_hash: The Git hash value.
- id: The capture ID of the node.
- pid: The capture process PID of the node.
- is_owner: Indicates whether the node is an owner.
```

## Check the health status of a TiCDC cluster

This is a synchronous interface. If the cluster is healthy, `200 OK` is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/health`

### Example

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/health
```

## Create a replication task

This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/changefeeds`

### Parameter description

> The optional parameters for creating a replication task using the API are not as complete as that of using the `cli` command. This API supports the following parameters.

Author: ```suggestion
Compared to the optional parameters for creating a replication task using the `cli` command, the optional parameters for such task creation using the API are not as complete. This API supports the following parameters.
```

#### Parameters for the request body

| Parameter name | Description |
| :------------------------ | :---------------------- ------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | `STRING` type. The ID of the replication task. (Optional) |
| `start_ts` | `UINT64` type. Specifies the start TSO of the changefeed. (Optional) |
| `target_ts` | `UINT64` type. Specifies the target TSO of the changefeed. (Optional) |
| **`sink_uri`** | `STRING` type. The downstream address of the replication task. (**Required**) |
| `force_replicate` | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to forcibly replicate the tables without unique indexes. (Optional) |
| `ignore_ineligible_table` | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to ignore the tables that cannot be replicated. (Optional) |
| `filter_rules` | `STRING` type array. The rules for table schema filtering. (Optional) |
| `ignore_txn_start_ts` | `UINT64` type array. Ignores the transaction of a specified start_ts. (Optional) |
| `mounter_worker_num` | `INT` type. The mounter thread number. (Optional) |
| `sink_config` | The configuration parameters of sink. (Optional) |

> The meaning and format of `changefeed_id`, `start_ts`, `target_ts`, and `sink_uri` are the same as those described in the [Use `cdc cli` to create a replication task](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) document. For the detailed description of these parameters, see this document. The following section describes some other parameters in the above table.

Author: ```suggestion
The meaning and format of `changefeed_id`, `start_ts`, `target_ts`, and `sink_uri` are the same as those described in the [Use `cdc cli` to create a replication task](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) document. For the detailed description of these parameters, see this document. The following part describes some other parameters in the above table.
```

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be deleted. |

### Example

The following request removes the replication task with the ID `test1`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Update the replication configuration

This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

To modify the changefeed configuration, follow the steps of `pause the replication task -> modify the configuration -> resume the replication task`.

### Request URI

`PUT /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |

> | `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be queried. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be updated. |
```

| `ignore_txn_start_ts` | `UINT64` type array. Ignores the transaction of a specified start_ts. (Optional) |
| `mounter_worker_num` | `INT` type. The mounter thread number. (Optional) |
| `sink_config` | The configuration parameters of sink. (Optional) |

The meanings of the above parameters are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.

### Example

The following request updates the `mounter_worker_num` of the replication task with the ID `test1` to `32`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
 curl -X POST -H "'Content-type':'application/json'" http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1 -d '{"mounter_worker_num":32}'
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Query the replication task list

This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all nodes in the TiCDC cluster is returned.

### Parameter description

#### Query parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :------ | :---------------------------------------- ----- |

> | `state` | Optional. When this parameter is specified, the replication status information only of this state is returned. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `state` | When this parameter is specified, the replication status information only of this state is returned.(Optional) |
```

The value options for `state` are `all`, `normal`, `stopped`, `error`, `failed`, and `finished`.

> If this parameter is not specified, the basic information of replication tasks in normal, stopped, and failed states is returned by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this parameter is not specified, the basic information of replication tasks whose state is normal, stopped, or failed is returned by default.
```

> ### Request URI

Reviewer: The `### Request URI` should be right after the secondary title `## Query the replication task list`

Author: done

`GET /api/v1/changefeeds`

### Example

The following request queries the basic information of all replication tasks whose state is `normal`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds?state=normal
```

```json
[
    {
        "id": "test1",
        "state": "normal",
        "checkpoint_tso": 426921294362574849,
        "checkpoint_time": "2021-08-10 14:04:54.242",
        "error": null
    },
    {
        "id": "test2",
        "state": "normal",
        "checkpoint_tso": 426921294362574849,
        "checkpoint_time": "2021-08-10 14:04:54.242",
        "error": null
    }
]
```

The fields in the returned result above are described as follows:

> -id: The ID of the replication task.
> -state: The current [state](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#state-transfer-of-replication-tasks) of the replication task.
> -checkpoint_tso: The TSO representation of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
> -checkpoint_tso: The formatted time representation of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
> -error: The error information of the replication task.

Author: ```suggestion
- id: The ID of the replication task.
- state: The current [state](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#state-transfer-of-replication-tasks) of the replication task.
- checkpoint_tso: The TSO representation of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
- checkpoint_tso: The formatted time representation of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
- error: The error information of the replication task.
```

## Query a specific replication task

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the detailed information of the specified replication task is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the detailed information of the specified replication task is returned.
```

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be queried. |

### Example

The following request queries the detailed information of the replication task with the ID `test1`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1
```

```json
{
    "id": "test1",
    "sink_uri": "blackhole://",
    "create_time": "2021-08-10 11:41:30.642",
    "start_ts": 426919038970232833,
    "target_ts": 0,
    "checkpoint_tso": 426921014615867393,
    "checkpoint_time": "2021-08-10 13:47:07.093",
    "sort_engine": "unified",
    "state": "normal",
    "error": null,
    "error_history": null,
    "creator_version": "",
    "task_status": [
        {
            "capture_id": "d8924259-f52f-4dfb-97a9-c48d26395945",
            "table_ids": [
                63,
                65,
            ],
            "table_operations": {}
        }
    ]
}
```

## Pause a replication task

> This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}/pause`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be paused. |

### Example

The following request pauses the replication task with the ID `test1`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1/pause
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Resume a replication task

> This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}/resume`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be resumed. |

### Example

The following request resumes the replication task with the ID `test1`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1/resume
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Query the replication subtask list

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication subtasks is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication subtasks is returned.
```

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication subtasks is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication subtasks (`processor`) is returned.
```

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/processors`

### Example

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/processors
```

```json
[
    {
        "changefeed_id": "test1",
        "capture_id": "561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af"
    }
]
```

## Query a specific replication subtask

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the detailed information of the specified replication subtask (`processor`) is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the detailed information of the specified replication subtask (`processor`) is returned.
```

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/processors/{changefeed_id}/{capture_id}`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The changefeed ID of the replication subtask to be queried. |
| `capture_id` | The capture ID of the replication subtask to be queried. |

### Example

> 

Reviewer: May be it is better that we add some describe about this example:

The following request query the detail information of a subtask which `changefeed_id` is `test` and `capture_id` is `561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af`. (A subtask can be indentifed by `changefeed_id` and `capture_id`).

Author: ```suggestion
The following request queries the detailed information of a subtask whose `changefeed_id` is `test` and `capture_id` is `561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af`. (A subtask can be indentifed by `changefeed_id` and `capture_id`).
```

> ### Example

Author: ```suggestion
### Example

```

> {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

Author: ```suggestion

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
```

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/processors/test1/561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

```json
{
    "checkpoint_ts": 426919123303006208,
    "resolved_ts": 426919123369066496,
    "table_ids": [
        63,
        65,
    ],
    "error": null
}
```

## Query the TiCDC service process list

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication processes (`capture`) is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication processes (`capture`) is returned.
```

### Request URI

`GET /api/v1/captures`

### Example

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/captures
```

```json
[
    {
        "id": "561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af",
        "is_owner": true,
        "address": "127.0.0.1:8300"
    }
]
```

## Evict an owner node

> This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/owner/resign`

### Example

The following request evicts the current owner node of TiCDC and triggers a new round of elections to generate a new owner node.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/owner/resign
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

> ## Manually trigger the load balancing of a table

Author: ```suggestion
## Manually trigger the load balancing of all tables in a replication task
```

> This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}/tables/rebalance_table`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be scheduled. |

### Example

> The following request triggers the load balancing of the changefeed table with the ID `test1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request triggers the load balancing of all tables in the changefeed with the ID `test1`.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
 curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/test1/tables/rebalance_table
```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Manually schedule a table to another node

> This is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}/tables/move_table`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be scheduled. |

#### Parameters for the request body

| Parameter name | Description |
| :------------------ | :------------------ |
| `target_capture_id` | The ID of the target capture. |
| `table_id` | The ID of the table to be scheduled. |

### Example

The following request schedules the table with the ID `49` in the changefeed with the ID `test1` to the capture with the ID `6f19a6d9-0f8c-4dc9-b299-3ba7c0f216f5`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl -X POST -H "'Content-type':'application/json'" http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v1/changefeeds/changefeed-test1/tables/move_table -d '{"capture_id":"6f19a6d9-0f8c-4dc9-b299-3ba7c0f216f5","table_id":49}'

```

If the request is successful, `202 Accepted` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Dynamically adjust the log level of the TiCDC server

> This is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 OK` is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, `202 OK` is returned.
```

### Request URI

`POST /api/v1/log`

### Request parameters

#### Parameters for the request body

| Parameter name | Description |
| :---------- | :----------------- |
| `log_level` | The log level you want to set. |

> `log_level` supports the [log levels provided by zap](https://godoc.org/go.uber.org/zap#UnmarshalText): "debug", "info", "warn", "error", "dpanic" , "Panic", "fatal".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`log_level` supports the [log levels provided by zap](https://godoc.org/go.uber.org/zap#UnmarshalText): "debug", "info", "warn", "error", "dpanic" , "panic", and "fatal".
```
